---
id: concept_selection
title: Concept Selection
sidebar_label: Concept Selection
---

### Why we selected / didn't select the concepts that we considered
1. We <b>did not</b> select concept 1 becuse of it's excessive simplicity. While it was quick to develop and deploy, it lacked the security, ease of integration, and scalability that our ideal clients would prefer to see. The source code would have been stored locally on a computer, which means that it would be possible to gain access to privledged code if one had access to the computer it was stored on (even if encrypted). To add new code the user would have to manually index each fragment with a unique name. This would essentially create more work than it was worth
2. We <b>did not</b> select concept 2, becuse while it addressed the core issue with concept 1 (exhaustive manual addition and recolleciton of the names of code fragments), it still lacked the widespread scalability / ease of use that our clients were searching for. Using DB query syntax like SQL would be clumsy and inconvenient for standard searching. Additionally, we would need to set up cloud servers to store all of the data if we didn't want it being easily stolen by non privledged users. Then, the question of management of all of these user queries and authentication came to the forefront of our discussions. This concept was close to what we needed, but lacked the conceptual sophistication to really cover all of our users' needs
3. We ended up <b>choosing</b> concept 3, becuase while it was a significantly larger undertaking than either concept 1 or 2, it covered all of our users needs in a robust and scalable way. Code would be saved to the cloud, and by maintaining the structure of the code and enriching user queries, we would be able to simultaneously provide effective search and organization for our users. The heavy integration with a web deplyment makes it easy for users to view and share indexed code with anyone they wish, and enables the easy view and retrieval of open source code. Lastly, the cloud based deployment and additional authentication means that no unprivledged users have a chance of viewing code they shouldn't. Concept 3 offered the strongest possibility of creating a system which can integrate open and closed source code in a scalable, easy to use, and robust way. 